<!-- TOC -->

- [下载](#%E4%B8%8B%E8%BD%BD)
- [解压](#%E8%A7%A3%E5%8E%8B)
- [配置](#%E9%85%8D%E7%BD%AE)
    - [configuration](#configuration)
    - [etc/node.properties](#etcnodeproperties)
    - [etc/jvm.config](#etcjvmconfig)
- [catalog](#catalog)
    - [hive.properties](#hiveproperties)
    - [mysql.properties](#mysqlproperties)
    - [sqlserver.properties](#sqlserverproperties)
    - [postgresql.properties](#postgresqlproperties)
- [启动](#%E5%90%AF%E5%8A%A8)

<!-- /TOC -->
https://prestodb.io/docs/current/installation/deployment.html#installing-presto
# 下载
[download](https://prestodb.io/download.html)
[文档](https://prestodb.io/docs/current/index.html)
version:0.266.1

# 解压
tar -zxvf presto.xxx.gz

# 配置
创建etc文件夹

## configuration
+ Node Properties: environmental configuration specific to each node
+ JVM Config: command line options for the Java Virtual Machine
+ Config Properties: configuration for the Presto server
+ Catalog Properties: configuration for Connectors (data sources)

## etc/node.properties
The node properties file, etc/node.properties, contains configuration specific to each node. A node is a single installed instance of Presto on a machine. This file is typically created by the deployment system when Presto is first installed. The following is a minimal etc/node.properties:
```
node.environment=production
node.id=node1
node.data-dir=/home/cai/App/presto
```
+ node.environment: The name of the environment. All Presto nodes in a cluster must have the same environment name.
+ node.id: The unique identifier for this installation of Presto. This must be unique for every node. This identifier should remain consistent across reboots or upgrades of Presto. If running multiple installations of Presto on a single machine (i.e. multiple nodes on the same machine), each installation must have a unique identifier.
+ node.data-dir: The location (filesystem path) of the data directory. Presto will store logs and other data here.


## etc/jvm.config
The JVM config file, etc/jvm.config, contains a list of command line options used for launching the Java Virtual Machine. The format of the file is a list of options, one per line. These options are not interpreted by the shell, so options containing spaces or other special characters should not be quoted.
```
-server
-Xmx16G
-XX:+UseG1GC
-XX:G1HeapRegionSize=32M
-XX:+UseGCOverheadLimit
-XX:+ExplicitGCInvokesConcurrent
-XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError
-XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError
```
Because an OutOfMemoryError will typically leave the JVM in an inconsistent state, we write a heap dump (for debugging) and forcibly terminate the process when this occurs.



---

# catalog
etc目录下创建

## hive.properties
```
connector.name=hive-hadoop2
# 如果没改过，默认9083
hive.metastore.uri=thrift://127.0.0.1:9083
hive.config.resources=${HADOOP_HOME}/etc/hadoop/core-site.xml,${HADOOP_HOME}/etc/hadoop/hdfs-site.xml
```

## mysql.properties
```
connector.name=mysql
connection-url=jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:3306
connection-user=user
connection-password=password
```

## sqlserver.properties
```
connector.name=sqlserver
connection-url=jdbc:sqlserver://127.0.0.1:1433;database=CDRDB
connection-user=user
connection-password=password
```

## postgresql.properties
等同greenplum
```
connector.name=postgresql
connection-url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/postgres
connection-user=user
connection-password=password
```

# 启动
cd ../../bin
./launcher start